## What is this?

This is a proof-of-concept for single-use certificate generation as part of SSH
authentication.

It used Vault SSH as the CA for generating the certificates. The only supported
auth method at the time this was written is LDAP.

This implementation is not suitable for production use.

## How to use?

The destination host must trust the CA's public key. For convenience we have a test server already configured `bs337`.
You can skip this step if wish.

If configuring a server to trust the CA, you need to configure sshd_config and save the CA's public key on the host.
The key can be obtained from: https://vault.aristanetworks.com:8200/v1/anet/engprod/ssh/public_key

On the host were you want to configure the CA trusted key:
```bash
$ curl  https://vault.aristanetworks.com:8200/v1/anet/engprod/ssh/public_key -o /etc/ssh/vault-ssh-ca-key.pem
$ sudo chmod 644 /etc/ssh/vault-ssh-ca-key.pem
$ echo 'TrustedUserCAKeys /etc/ssh/vault-ssh-ca-key.pem' | sudo tee -a /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

Restart sshd `sudo systemctl restart sshd`

------------------------------------------

On the client side, this is your laptop/workstation. Update the local ssh config to use the custom agent socket and enable
agent forwarding by default.

```bash
$ pwd
/Users/jsuarez/repos/ssh-agent-poc

sudo vim ~/.ssh/config
```

Add the following configuration:

```bash
Host *
  ForwardAgent yes
  IdentityAgent /Users/jsuarez/repos/ssh-agent-poc/agent.sock
```

The above will use the config for all hosts, feel free to narrow it down.

------------------------------------------

To run the agent, simply execute the following command:

```bash
$ go run .
```

Optionally, specify the login provider (-p), options are google(default) and ldap. E.g. to use ldap:

```bash
$ go run . -p ldap
```

This will start a google oidc browser based login flow or it will prompt for your LDAP credentials.
A ssh agent socket named `agent.sock` will be created in the current directory and ready to be used.

In another terminal, try using the agent to connect to `bs337``:

```bash
$ ssh bs337 -vvv
```

If you did the setup correctly, you should now be logged in. If you forwarded the agent (-A) you can run `ssh-add -L` to
verify that the host is able to get new certs from the agent on your workstation.

Another way verify the socket is being forwarded and certificates can be generated by the agent running on `bs337``, run:

```bash
$ ssh bs337 -A ssh-add -L
```

From here try connecting to another host you have configured to trust the CA.
Try using et, scp, mosh (Does not support agent forwarding), pdsh or Ansible.
